THE NATIONAL CORONERS SERVICE BILL, 2026
(Kenya Gazette Supplement No. 217, National Assembly Bills No. 60, Nairobi, 4th September, 2026)

A Bill for
AN ACT of Parliament to establish the National Coroners Service; post-mortem
investigations; transfer of bodies of deceased persons into and out of Kenya;
and for connected purposes

ENACTED by the Parliament of Kenya, as follows—

PART I—PRELIMINARY

1. This Act may be cited as the National Coroners Service Act, 2026. (Short title)

2. Interpretation. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
"Attorney-General" means the Attorney-General appointed under Article 156 of
the Constitution;
"coroner" means a person appointed as a coroner under section 23;
"Coroner-General" means the person appointed as the Coroner-General under
section 18;
"Council" means the National Coroners Service Council established under
section 11;
"custody" means the detention of a person in any place or in transit, by the
State;
"disposal" means the burial, cremation, entombment or donation of the remains
of a deceased person;
"guardian" means a person who is responsible for, or entrusted with, the care,
welfare or protection of an individual;
"interested person" includes: a relative of a deceased person; a personal
representative of the estate; a beneficiary or insurer under a life insurance
policy; a person who may have caused or contributed to the death, or their
employer/agent; a trade union representative or employer where death was
work-related; a person appointed by an enforcing authority or government
department; a representative of Muslims or of an interest group appointed by
the Coroner-General; a medical practitioner who attended the deceased before
death; or any other person the Service considers has sufficient interest;
"post-mortem investigation" means the forensic medical examination of a
death investigated by the Service to determine identity, time, date, manner and
cause of death;
"relative" means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent,
grandchild, nephew, niece, stepfather, stepmother, half-brother or half-sister;
"reportable death" means a death occurring under circumstances specified in
section 30; and
"Service" means the National Coroners Service established under section 7.

3. Object of the Act. The object of this Act is—
(a) to provide for the complementary role of forensic medical science services
when conducting post-mortem investigations and in the management of
crime scenes;
(b) to identify, by forensic study, possible measures to help prevent reportable
deaths from similar causes; and
(c) to facilitate the participation of the Service at inquests on reportable
deaths, including matters related to public health or safety and the
administration of justice.

4. Scope of the Act. This Act applies to—
(a) the conduct of post-mortem investigations;
(b) the disposal of the bodies of deceased persons;
(c) the exhumation of the bodies of deceased persons;
(d) the transfer of the bodies of deceased persons into Kenya; and
(e) the transfer of the bodies of deceased persons out of Kenya.

5. Guiding principles of the Act. In exercising powers and performing functions
under this Act, the Coroner-General, coroners or any other person charged with
a power or function under this Act shall respect and uphold the values and
principles enshrined in the Constitution.

6. Interaction with written law. (1) This Act shall not limit or otherwise affect
the functions or powers of a police officer or any other person investigating a
death under written law, or a police officer discharging duties other than in
respect of a post-mortem investigation under this Act.
(2) The provisions of this Act shall be subject to the Commissions of Inquiry
Act, Cap. 102.

PART II—THE NATIONAL CORONERS SERVICE

7. Establishment of the Service. (1) There is established a service to be known
as the National Coroners Service. (2) The Service shall be a body corporate with
perpetual succession and a common seal, capable of suing and being sued,
acquiring/holding/disposing of property, and doing other acts as may lawfully
be done by a body corporate.

8. Access to the Service. (1) The headquarters of the Service shall be in Nairobi
City County. (2) The Service shall ensure reasonable access to its services in all
parts of Kenya.

9. Independence of the Service. (1) The Service, in the discharge of its
functions, shall not be under the direction or control of any person.
(2) A person who unlawfully influences or attempts to influence a decision of a
member of the Council, the Coroner-General or staff commits an offence: fine
not exceeding five hundred thousand shillings or imprisonment not exceeding
two years, or both.
(3) A person who unlawfully interferes with the exercise of powers of the
Service or Coroner-General commits an offence with the same penalty.
(4) Where the offence under (2) or (3) is committed by a body corporate: fine of
two million shillings.

10. Functions of the Service. The Service shall—
(a) conduct post-mortem investigations of reportable deaths;
(b) assist police in handling investigations involving decedent bodies and
scene management;
(c) provide expert evidence in inquiries into reportable deaths under the
Criminal Procedure Code (Cap. 75);
(d) advise Government on public health, public safety and administration of
justice relating to reportable deaths;
(e) conduct studies and advise on measures/policies to prevent reportable
deaths; and
(f) perform other related functions necessary to achieve the Act's objects.

11. The Council. (1) There shall be a National Coroners Service Council
consisting of: a chairperson appointed by the President; the Principal
Secretaries (or designated representatives) responsible for justice and finance;
the Inspector-General of the National Police Service (or representative); the
Director of Public Prosecutions (or representative); one person nominated by
the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board; one nominated by the Law
Society of Kenya; one nominated by the Kenya National Commission on Human
Rights; and the Coroner-General.
(2) Chairperson qualifications: Kenyan citizen, university degree, at least fifteen
years' experience in law/criminology/human rights, and meets Chapter Six of
the Constitution requirements.
(3) Other appointed members (f, g, h) qualifications: university degree, at least
ten years' experience in law/public administration/medicine/economics/
finance/gender and social development/human rights/social sciences, and
Chapter Six compliance.
(4) Chairperson/members under (f)(g)(h) serve a three-year term, renewable
once.

12. Vacancy in the Council. (1) Office becomes vacant on resignation, death, or
removal on grounds in subsection (2): absence from three consecutive
meetings without reasonable cause; conviction with imprisonment exceeding
six months; breach of Chapter Six; gross misconduct; bankruptcy; or
incapacity by physical/mental illness.

13. Functions of the Council: to advise the Attorney-General on policies
relating to the Service's functions; to advise the Service on its administration;
and other functions conferred by this or other written law.

14. Annual report by the Council. (1) Within three months after each financial
year, the Council shall prepare and submit an annual report to the
Attorney-General and National Assembly.
(2) The report shall specify: the Service's activities; financial statements;
progress on the Service's objects; Council recommendations and action taken;
impact of the Service's functions; impediments faced; and other relevant
information.

15. Committees of the Council: the Council may establish committees as
necessary.

16. Delegation by the Council: the Council may delegate functions/powers to a
committee or staff member.

17. Conduct of affairs of the Council: shall be in accordance with the Schedule.

18. Appointment of the Coroner-General. (1) The Council shall competitively
recruit and appoint the Coroner-General.
(2) Qualifications: Kenyan citizen; Bachelor's degree in medicine and surgery;
Master's degree in a field related to human pathology; at least fifteen years'
practice as a medical practitioner; at least five years' experience in human
pathology; at least five years' experience at management level; valid practising
certificate under the Medical Practitioners and Dentists Act (Cap. 253); and a
qualification in forensic pathology from training of at least six months.
(3) The Coroner-General holds office for a single non-renewable six-year term.

19. Functions of the Coroner-General: responsible for day-to-day
administration, control and management of the Service; and other functions
conferred by law.

20. Powers of the Coroner-General: to issue disposal permits; to request a
magistrate to hold an inquiry into a reportable death (Criminal Procedure Code
s.387); to designate a facility for temporary storage of human remains during
post-mortem examination; and to approve transfer of human remains into/out
of Kenya.

21. Delegation by the Coroner-General: may delegate powers/functions in
writing to any officer, staff or agent, subject to conditions; delegation does not
divest responsibility and may be withdrawn or varied.

22. Vacancy in the office of the Coroner-General: becomes vacant on
resignation, death, or removal on grounds: conviction with imprisonment
exceeding six months; breach of Chapter Six; bankruptcy; or incapacity. Where
removal is sought on ground (b), the Council must inform the Coroner-General
in writing and offer an opportunity to respond.

23. Appointment of coroners and staff of the Service. (1) The Council shall
competitively recruit and appoint coroners as necessary, on terms determined
with advice of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission.
(2) The Council shall, through a competitive and transparent process, appoint
other staff as necessary.

24. General responsibility of a coroner: the performance of functions/exercise
of powers by a coroner shall be consistent with justice and practicable to do so,
without delay, and under directions issued by the Coroner-General.

25. Corporation Secretary to the Council: appointed by the Council through a
competitive and transparent process, on terms determined in consultation with
the Salaries and Remuneration Commission.

26. Conflict of interest: a member of the Council, Coroner-General, coroner or
staff with a personal interest conflicting with the exercise of a power/function
shall declare the conflict and refrain from exercising that power/performing
that function.

27. Protection from personal liability. (1) Anything done in good faith in the
exercise of a power/performance of a function shall not render the person
personally liable. (2) This does not relieve the Service of liability to pay
compensation for injury caused by the exercise of its powers/functions.

PART III—POST-MORTEM INVESTIGATIONS

28. Purpose of post-mortem investigations: to ascertain particulars of the
deceased; how, when and where death occurred; cause and manner of death;
preventive measures for similar deaths; and any other required particulars.

29. Post-mortem investigations of deaths suspected to be of a criminal nature:
the Service shall undertake these regardless of faith or other considerations
requiring immediate disposal.

30. Reportable deaths. (1) The Service shall investigate all reportable deaths.
(2) A death is reportable if: due to violence, accident, suspected homicide or
suicide; sudden and unexpected; occurred in any form of custody; within one
year and a day of an assault; within 24 hours of surgery; during/after
anaesthesia administration; within 24 hours of hospital discharge; a maternal
death; a victim of a sexual offence; suspected infanticide; a cot death; a child
who died from suspected abuse; occurred in a mental health facility,
rehabilitation centre, or care institution for older persons or children; occurred
while in a guardian's care; suspected misadventure, negligence, misconduct or
malpractice; treated by an unlicensed or unqualified healthcare professional; or
as the Inspector-General of Police may require investigated.
(3) Definitions: "cot death" = sudden unexplained death of an otherwise
healthy baby under one year; "maternal death" = death during pregnancy,
childbirth, or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy from a
pregnancy-related cause.

31. Notification of reportable deaths. (1) A person who suspects a reportable
death shall immediately notify the Service or a police officer. (2) Institution
heads (per s.30(2)(m)/(n)) must immediately notify the Service or police of
deaths occurring there. (3) The Service shall immediately notify police of any
such notification. (4) Police notified must immediately notify the Service.
(5) Failure to comply with (1): fine not exceeding fifty thousand shillings or
imprisonment not exceeding six months, or both. (6) Intimidating/harassing/
assaulting a person who made a notification: fine not exceeding five hundred
thousand shillings or imprisonment not exceeding two years, or both.
(7) Where committed by a body corporate: fine of two million shillings.

32. Notification of deaths in custody. (1) The officer in charge of the place of
custody (or nearest police officer) shall notify the Service immediately upon
discovering the deceased. (2) Non-compliance is an offence. (3) In exceptional
circumstances preventing timely notification, a written report explaining the
delay must be issued alongside the late notification. (4) Where the Service
investigates a death in custody, it shall furnish a copy of the notification to the
Independent Policing Oversight Authority or other relevant authority.

33. Conduct of post-mortem investigations. (1) The Service shall, as soon as
practicable, conduct an investigation upon becoming aware under s.29 or being
notified under s.31/32. (2) The investigation shall be concluded within three
months from the date of becoming aware/being notified.

34. Preservation and management of scenes of death. (1) A police officer or
person present at the death, or who finds the body, shall preserve the scene
until the Service arrives, in addition to notifying under s.31/32. (2) The police
officer shall also collect evidence relevant to investigation/prosecution.
(3) Interfering with evidence or the scene: fine not exceeding five hundred
thousand shillings or imprisonment not exceeding two years, or both.
(4) Where committed by a body corporate: fine not exceeding two million
shillings.

35. Collection of forensic samples: the Service has power to collect and
preserve forensic and other samples as it determines.

36. Transferring bodies to mortuaries. (1) Applies where transfer is directed by
the Service or a police officer. (2) Persons involved must comply with
directions of the Service/police officer, and directions of the Coroner-General
on dignity/respect for those present and cultural/spiritual beliefs, and the
manner of transfer.

37. Participation in post-mortem examinations. (1) The Service may authorise
an interested person or representative to observe/participate. (2) Before
authorising, the Service shall ensure the person has an interest, attendance
won't compromise integrity, and family has been consulted where practicable.
(3) Written notice of time/place shall be given. (4) The Service may authorise
observation for vocational/clinical education/training purposes upon request.

38. Tissues required for post-mortem examinations. (1) The Service may
release the body if the relative/guardian has been informed of tissue extraction
and retention is necessary for the investigation. (2) Where tissue is kept for
testing, the Service shall, at least every six months, determine whether it
should still be retained, disposed of, or stored indefinitely. (3) "Tissue" means
any human tissue identified as suitable for a particular purpose by the Service.

39. Conduct of post-mortem investigations by medical practitioners. (1) The
Service may procure services of a qualified medical practitioner or expert.
(2) Procurement shall be under the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act
(Cap. 412C). (3) A "suitably qualified" practitioner is a registered medical
practitioner with relevant human pathology qualification/experience, or as
determined by the Service for a particular kind of examination. (4) A person
whose treatment is alleged to have caused/contributed to death (improperly or
negligently) shall not undertake or assist in the post-mortem, but is entitled to
be represented during it. (5) The examining practitioner/expert shall, as soon as
practicable, prepare and submit a post-mortem examination report to the
Service.

40. Post-mortem investigation reports. (1) The Service shall prepare a report of
every investigation. (2) The report shall be issued to relevant authorities and
interested persons as soon as concluded (per s.33(2)). (3) An interim report
shall be submitted to the National Police Service and DPP (or other relevant
authority) within 24 hours of concluding the post-mortem examination.
(4) A final and conclusive report shall be submitted within three months of the
examination. (5) If the report is not submitted within that time, the Service
shall submit reasons for the delay to the same recipients. (6) Every report shall
be signed by the Coroner-General and include: where/when/by whom
conducted; identity of the deceased; location of the body; where/when/how
death occurred; preventive-measure issues; and any other matter the
Coroner-General considers necessary. (7) Where identity is unknown, the body
may be described by physical/identifiable features. (8) No report shall be
deemed defective for technical defect or want of form.

41. Actions where deaths are suspected due to offences: the Service shall
immediately submit a copy of the investigation report to the DPP and National
Police Service.

42. Review of post-mortem investigations: the Service may review a report on
application by an aggrieved party or its own motion if: circumstances warrant
a fresh investigation; new facts/evidence emerge; or new beneficial technology
emerges.

43. Post-mortem investigation report as prima facie evidence. (1) For purposes
of investigation, prosecution and court hearings, a report under s.40 is prima
facie evidence as to cause of death. (2) This does not preclude a dissatisfied
person from seeking another opinion.

44. Second opinions. (1) A dissatisfied person may, at their own cost, seek
another opinion from a medical practitioner. (2) The Service may attend the
post-mortem investigation conducted for the second opinion.

45. Disposal permits: upon completion (or if necessary before completion), the
Service shall issue a disposal permit for the remains.

46. Control of the bodies of deceased persons. (1) Unless death is reported
after disposal, the Service has control of the body immediately upon delivery.
(2) Control ceases when a disposal permit is issued. (3) Where identity cannot
be determined, the Service shall dispose of the body per Attorney-General
regulations.

47. Discontinuing post-mortem investigations. (1) The Service may discontinue
if: death is determined natural; a court orders discontinuance; the Service has
a conflict of interest; or discontinuance is prudent for public health/safety
reasons. (2) A report explaining the discontinuation shall be prepared as soon
as practicable.

48. Exhumation of bodies or recovering cremated remains. (1) The Service may
apply to the High Court for an order to exhume a buried body or recover
cremated remains. (2) At least two days' notice of intent to apply shall be given
to the person in charge of the burial place and other interested persons the
Service determines. (3) Notice is not required if the Service cannot, after
reasonable steps, contact those persons, or considers notification not in the
public interest. (4) If a concern is raised but the Service considers the order in
the public interest, the court shall make the order and provide a copy to the
person. (5) The order authorises a police officer to enter and remain at the
place as reasonably necessary. (6) The officer shall arrange transport of the
body/remains per the order's directions. (7) As soon as reasonably practicable
after examination, the Service shall direct return of the body/remains to their
original location.

49. State to bear the cost of post-mortem examinations conducted by the
Service.

PART IV—TRANSFER OF BODIES OF DECEASED PERSONS INTO AND OUT OF
KENYA

50. Transfer of bodies out of Kenya. (1) A person intending to transfer a body
out of Kenya shall apply to the Service for approval. (2) Does not apply to
remains deemed antiquities under the National Museums and Heritage Act
(Cap. 216).

51. Transfer of bodies into Kenya. (1) A person intending to transfer a body
into Kenya shall apply to the Service for approval. (2) Same antiquities
exception as above.

52. Disposal in Kenya where death occurred outside Kenya. (1) A person
intending to dispose of such a body in Kenya shall obtain a medical certificate
of cause of death from the country where death occurred. (2) Same antiquities
exception.

PART V—FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

53. Funds of the Service consist of: monies allocated by Parliament; fees
charged under this Act or Regulations; lawful grants, gifts, donations or
endowments; and other funds vesting in or accruing to the Service.

54. Financial year of the Service: the period from this Act's commencement to
the following 30 June, and thereafter each 1 July to 30 June.

55. Annual estimates. (1) At least three months before each financial year, the
Service shall prepare revenue and expenditure estimates. (2) Estimates shall
provide for: remuneration of Council members and staff; pensions/gratuities;
maintenance of buildings/grounds; funding of training/research/development;
and reserve funds for future/contingent liabilities. (3) Estimates shall be
approved by the Council before the financial year and submitted to the
Attorney-General for tabling in Parliament. (4) The Service shall not incur
expenditure except per approved estimates.

56. Accounts and audit. (1) The Service shall keep proper books/records of
account. (2) Annual accounts shall be prepared, audited and reported per the
Public Audit Act (Cap. 412B).

PART VI—OFFENCES

57. Obstruction: obstructing the Service in exercising its powers/functions —
fine not exceeding two hundred thousand shillings or imprisonment not
exceeding one year.

58. Failure to supply information, documents or items. (1) Without reasonable
excuse: fine not exceeding two hundred thousand shillings or imprisonment not
exceeding one year, or both. (2) Body corporate: fine not exceeding two million
shillings.

59. Making false or misleading statements. (1) Knowing or ought to have
known a statement is false/misleading: fine not exceeding five hundred
thousand shillings or imprisonment not exceeding two years, or both. (2) Body
corporate: fine not exceeding two million shillings.

60. Non-compliance with the directions of the Service. (1) Failing/refusing to
comply with a direction to remove a body or other lawful direction: offence.
(2) Hindering/preventing compliance: offence. (3) Penalty: fine not exceeding
five hundred thousand shillings or imprisonment not exceeding two years, or
both. (4) Body corporate: fine not exceeding two million shillings.

61. General penalty. (1) An offence under this Act with no specified penalty:
fine not exceeding five hundred thousand shillings or imprisonment not
exceeding two years, or both. (2) Body corporate: fine not exceeding two
million shillings.

PART VII—PROVISIONS ON DELEGATED POWERS

62. Regulations. (1) The Attorney-General, in consultation with the Service,
may make regulations for better carrying into effect the Act's provisions.
(2) Regulations may prescribe: conduct of post-mortem investigations; review
procedure; complaint-consideration procedure; second-opinion procedure;
cause-of-death certificate issuance; disposal permit issuance; facility
designation for temporary storage; approval procedure for body
transfer into/out of Kenya; disposal of unidentified bodies; retention of bodies
or tissues; and any other necessary matter. (3) Per Article 94(6) of the
Constitution, the regulation-making power is limited to giving effect to this Act,
and Statutory Instruments Act/Interpretation and General Provisions Act
principles apply to regulations made under this Act.

PART VIII—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

63. Investigations of complaints. (1) The Council may investigate complaints
against Service decisions on: whether to conduct a post-mortem examination;
access/restriction to observe or participate; determinations made at
conclusion; tissue retention; whether to review a report; whether to resume a
discontinued investigation; issuance of a cause-of-death certificate; transfer of
a body into/out of Kenya; or disposal in Kenya where death occurred abroad.
(2) Upon concluding an investigation, the Council may make recommendations.

64. Access to information: any person may seek and obtain information on the
exercise of any Service power or function.

65. Non-disclosure of information by the Service: Council members/staff shall
not disclose information acquired through their duties, except for legal
proceedings, where the Service determines public interest disclosure, or where
required under the Access to Information Act (Cap. 7M).

66. Duty to co-operate with the Service. (1) Public officers, State organs or
offices shall at all times co-operate, including responding to relevant inquiries
and providing required information. (2) Non-compliance by a State/public
officer: fine not exceeding two hundred thousand shillings or imprisonment not
exceeding one year, or both.

67. Protection from liability for information and other items submitted to the
Service. (1) A person is not civilly, criminally or administratively liable for
submitting required information, documents, items, or confidential
information in compliance with this Act or other written law. (2) Such
submission does not constitute breach of professional ethics or departure from
professional standards. (3) The person has a defence of absolute privilege in
defamation proceedings for such submissions, and does not contravene any
confidentiality obligation under another Act, oath or rule of law/practice, nor
face disciplinary action for it.

68. Repeal: the National Coroners Service Act (Cap. 89) is repealed.

SCHEDULE (s. 17)—Conduct of the affairs of the Council

1. Meetings of the Council. (1) The Council shall meet at least four times a
year, with not more than three months between meetings. (2) Date/time/place
determined by the Council. (3) The chairperson shall convene a special
meeting on written application of at least one-third of members. (4) The
chairperson presides when present; in their absence, members present elect a
presiding member with full chairperson powers for that meeting. (5)
Proceedings are not invalidated merely by a vacancy among members.

2. Quorum: five members.

3. Decisions of the Council: by majority of members present and voting; the
presiding person has a casting vote in case of a tie.

4. Signification of instruments and decisions: unless otherwise provided, all
instruments/decisions are signified under the Chairperson's hand.

5. Disclosure of interest by members. (1) A member directly/indirectly
interested in a matter before the Council, present at a meeting considering it,
shall disclose the interest as soon as practicable and not participate in
discussion/voting or be counted in quorum for that matter. (2) Despite (1), if a
majority present consider the member's experience/expertise vital, the Council
may permit participation subject to restrictions, but without voting rights.
(3) Disclosures shall be recorded in the minutes. (4) Contravening
subparagraph (1): fine not exceeding one hundred thousand shillings or
imprisonment not exceeding six months, or both.

MEMORANDUM OF OBJECTS AND REASONS

The principal object of the Bill is to establish the National Coroners Service;
post-mortem investigations; transfer of bodies of deceased persons into and
out of Kenya; and for connected purposes.

Part I provides for preliminary matters, including the object and scope of the
Act, guiding principles, and application.

Part II provides for establishment of the National Coroners Service, access to
and independence of the Service, its functions, the appointment/composition/
qualifications/term of the Council, functions of the Council, annual reporting
to Parliament, appointment and functions/powers of the Coroner-General,
appointment of coroners and staff (including the corporation secretary), and
conflict of interest/protection from personal liability provisions.

Part III provides for the purpose of post-mortem investigations, mandatory
investigation of deaths suspected criminal, definition of reportable deaths and
notification obligations (including deaths in custody), conduct of
investigations (scene preservation, forensic samples, transfer to mortuaries,
participation, tissue retention, conduct by medical practitioners, and
investigation reports), actions where death is suspected due to an offence,
review of investigations, reports as prima facie evidence, second opinions,
disposal permits, control/discontinuation of investigations, exhumation of
bodies, and State-borne costs.

Part IV provides for transfer of bodies into and out of Kenya, and disposal in
Kenya where death occurred abroad.

Part V provides for the Service's funds, annual estimates, and account
auditing.

Part VI provides for offences: obstruction, failure to supply information,
making false statements, non-compliance with Service directions, and the
general penalty.

Part VII provides for investigation of complaints, access to information,
non-disclosure by the Service, duty to co-operate, protection from liability for
submitted information, regulation-making, and repeal of the National
Coroners Service Act (Cap. 89).

The Schedule provides for the conduct of the affairs of the Council.

Statement on delegation of legislative powers and limitation of fundamental
rights and freedoms: the Bill delegates legislative powers to the
Attorney-General but does not limit fundamental rights and freedoms.

Statement on whether the Bill concerns County Governments: the Bill does not
concern county governments in terms of Article 110(1)(a) of the Constitution.

Statement on whether the Bill is a money Bill within the meaning of Article 114
of the Constitution: the enactment of this Bill may occasion additional
expenditure of public funds.

Dated the 19th August, 2026.
KIMANI ICHUNG'WAH, Leader of the Majority Party.