THE PUBLIC PARTICIPATION BILL, 2025
(National Assembly Bill No. 44 of 2025)

A Bill for
AN ACT of Parliament to provide for the conduct of public participation; to give
effect to the constitutional principle of participation of the people enshrined in
Articles 10(2), 69(1)(d), 118, 184(1)(c), 196, 201(a) and 232(1)(d) of the
Constitution; and for connected purposes

ENACTED by the Parliament of Kenya, as follows—

PART I—PRELIMINARY

1. This Act may be cited as the Public Participation Act, 2025.

2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
"public participation" means the process of involving the public in making or
implementing public policy decisions including the enactment of legislation;
"responsible authority" means the person responsible for public participation in
the institutions set out under section 6; and
"specific guidelines" means the specific public participation guidelines developed
by a responsible authority under section 16.

3. The object of this Act is to enhance, promote and facilitate participation of the
people in governance as provided for in Articles 10(2), 69(1)(d), 118, 184(1)(c),
196, 201(a) and 232(1)(d) of the Constitution.

4. (1) This Act applies to responsible authorities and the public with respect to
public participation exercises.
(2) A responsible authority shall facilitate public participation on matters relating
to—
(a) formulation and implementation of public policies;
(b) law making processes.

5. A responsible authority undertaking a public participation exercise under this
Act shall be guided by the principles that—
(a) public participation may be conducted through written submissions, oral
hearings, online forums or any other method deemed appropriate to the context;
(b) the public shall be afforded a reasonable chance to express their views;
(c) the scope, depth and duration of a public participation exercise shall be
commensurate with the complexity, significance and potential impact of the
matter under consideration; and
(d) public resources shall be used in a prudent and responsible manner.

PART II—RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITIES

6. The responsible authorities for the purposes of this Act shall be—
(a) in the case of Parliament, the Clerk of the relevant House;
(b) in the case of the Judiciary, the Chief Registrar of the Judiciary;
(c) in the case of the Office of the Attorney-General, the Attorney-General;
(d) in the case of the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, the Director of
Public Prosecutions;
(e) in the case of a State Department, the relevant Principal Secretary;
(f) in the case of a Constitutional Commission or an Independent Office, the
Secretary or the Chief Executive Officer;
(g) in the case of a State corporation, the Chief Executive Officer;
(h) in the case of a county assembly, the Clerk of the county assembly;
(i) in the case of a county executive, the county Governor; and
(j) in any other case, the person or entity making or implementing a public policy
decision.

PART III—GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

7. A responsible authority shall in undertaking public participation, consider—
(a) the nature of the matter under consideration;
(b) the urgency of the matter under consideration;
(c) the impact of the matter on the public;
(d) the need for inclusive and effective representation;
(e) the number of persons likely to be affected;
(f) the ability of the members of the public to access the necessary information
and the public participation forum;
(g) the integrity and transparency of the process;
(h) the financial and human resources available; and
(i) any other relevant considerations.

8. (1) A responsible authority shall, before undertaking a public participation
exercise, notify the public of the exercise.
(2) A notice under subsection (1) shall include the venue, date, time and mode of
the public participation exercise.

9. (1) A responsible authority may notify the public of the public participation
exercise through—
(a) electronic media including television, radio stations, internet or mobile
phones;
(b) official websites and social media platforms;
(c) public meetings;
(d) public notice boards; or
(e) print media.
(2) A public participation notice under subsection (1) shall state—
(a) the subject matter of the public participation;
(b) the duration of the public participation exercise; and
(c) whether submissions may be made orally, in writing or both.

10. The submissions at a public participation exercise may be made—
(a) in writing by way of memoranda or letters;
(b) orally;
(c) through online platforms; or
(d) at public hearings, workshops, seminars and conferences.

11. A responsible authority shall allow reasonable time for the public to make
submissions during a public participation process.

12. (1) A responsible authority shall analyse and take into account the
submissions received from the public.
(2) A responsible authority shall publish the outcome of the public participation
exercise.

13. (1) A responsible authority shall ensure that the public has access to the
public participation process and the opportunity to give views on the matter
under consideration.
(2) Where a responsible authority holds a public hearing and the participants are
not conversant with English or Kiswahili language, the responsible authority
shall take measures to conduct the exercise in a language that the participants
understand.

14. A responsible authority shall facilitate the public with access to the
documents relating to the matter under consideration in a public participation
exercise.

15. (1) A person who attends a public participation forum shall be courteous,
respectful and civil.
(2) A responsible authority shall facilitate the maintenance of order during the
conduct of public participation.

PART IV—SPECIFIC GUIDELINES FOR PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

16. (1) A responsible authority may develop specific guidelines for the conduct of
public participation by the respective institution.
(2) The specific guidelines on public participation developed by a responsible
authority shall comply with the general guidelines set out in Part III of this Act.

17. A responsible authority shall publish in the Gazette, the specific guidelines on
public participation developed pursuant to section 16: Provided that in the case
of Parliament and county assemblies, such guidelines shall be incorporated in
the Standing Orders of the respective House of Parliament or county assembly.

18. (1) Pursuant to Article 118(1) of the Constitution, Parliament shall—
(a) conduct its business in an open manner, and its sittings and those of its
committees shall be open to the public; and
(b) facilitate public participation and involvement in the legislative and other
business of Parliament and its committees.
(2) Where a Committee of one House of Parliament has conducted public
participation on a Bill, a Committee of the other House of Parliament may—
(a) rely on the report tabled by the Committee of the originating House; or
(b) seek additional views on the Bill with respect to substantive amendments
made to the Bill during its consideration.
(3) A committee of the originating House may hold a joint public participation
exercise with the corresponding committee of the other House with respect to a
Bill originating from the Party forming the National Government.
(4) A committee of a House of Parliament may take measures to avoid
duplicating public participation conducted by a committee of the originating
House.

PART V—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

19. (1) A responsible authority undertaking public participation under this Act
shall not disclose information protected under section 6 of the Access to
Information Act, sections 48 and 49 of the Kenya Defence Forces Act or any
other written law.
(2) A responsible authority processing personal data under this Act shall comply
with the Data Protection Act.

20. A responsible authority who, in conducting public participation, wilfully
fails to adhere to the principles and guidelines set out under this Act commits an
offence and shall be liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding five hundred
thousand shillings.

21. A public participation exercise in progress at the commencement of this Act
shall proceed so far as possible in accordance with this Act.

MEMORANDUM OF OBJECTS AND REASONS

The principal object of the Bill is to provide a framework for effective public
participation. The Bill gives effect to the Constitutional principle of participation
of the people enshrined in Articles 1, 10, 35, 69, 118, 174, 184, 196, 201, and 232
of the Constitution. The Bill also provides guiding principles to be adhered to by
institutions conducting public participation. The Bill further designates the
responsible authorities for purposes of the development of specific guidelines
for public participation in each public institution.

Statement on whether the Bill concerns county governments: The Bill seeks to
provide a national framework for public participation. Public participation is a
constitutional requirement at all levels of government. The Bill therefore
concerns county governments in terms of Article 110(1)(a) of the Constitution.

Statement on whether the Bill is a money Bill: The enactment of this Bill may
occasion additional expenditure of public funds.

Dated the 24th September, 2025.
OTIENDE AMOLLO, Member of Parliament.
SAMUEL CHEPKONGA, Member of Parliament.

[Tracking note: as of this data snapshot, the Bill has passed First Reading (4 Nov
2025), Second Reading (15 Apr 2026), and is currently at Third Reading (12 Aug
2026), per Mzalendo Trust's Bill Tracker.]
