SOURCE: https://new.kenyalaw.org/akn/ke/bill/na/2026-09-04/the-national-coroners-service-bill-2026/eng@2026-09-04
PDF: https://new.kenyalaw.org/akn/ke/bill/na/2026-09-04/the-national-coroners-service-bill-2026/eng@2026-09-04/source.pdf

---

SPECIAL ISSUE  
Kenya Gazette Supplement No. 217 (National Assembly Bills No. 60) 
REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
––––––– 
KENYA GAZETTE SUPPLEMENT 
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY BILLS, 2026 
NAIROBI, 4th September, 2026 
CONTENT 
Bill for Introduction into the National Assembly— 
PAGE 
The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026  ...........................................  
2039 
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE GOVERNMENT PRINTER, NAIROBI 

 
 
 
 
 

2039 
THE NATIONAL CORONERS SERVICE BILL, 2026 
ARRANGEMENT OF CLAUSES 
Clause. 
PART I—PRELIMINARY 
1—Short title. 
2—Interpretation. 
3—Object of the Act. 
4—Scope of the Act. 
5—Guiding principles of the Act. 
6—Interaction with written law. 
PART II—THE NATIONAL CORONERS SERVICE 
7—Establishment of the Service. 
8—Access to the Service. 
9—Independence of the Service. 
10—Functions of the Service. 
11—The Council.  
12—Vacancy in the Council. 
13—Functions of the Council. 
14—Annual report by the Council. 
15—Committees of the Council. 
16—Delegation by the Council. 
17—Conduct of affairs of the Council. 
18—Appointment of the Coroner-General. 
19—Functions of the Coroner-General. 
20—Powers of the Coroner-General. 
21—Delegation by the Coroner-General. 
22—Vacancy in the office of the Coroner-General. 
23—Appointment of coroners and staff of the Service. 
24—General responsibility of a coroner. 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2040 
25—Corporation secretary to the Council. 
26—Conflict of interest. 
27—Protection from personal liability. 
PART III—POST-MORTEM INVESTIGATIONS 
28—Purpose of post-mortem investigations. 
29—Post-mortem investigations of deaths suspected to 
be of criminal nature. 
30—Reportable deaths. 
31—Notification of reportable deaths. 
32—Notification of deaths in custody. 
33—Conduct of post-mortem investigations. 
34—Preservation and management of scenes of death. 
35—Collection of forensic samples. 
36—Transferring the bodies of deceased persons to 
mortuaries. 
37—Participation in post-mortem examinations. 
38—Tissues required for conducting post-mortem 
examinations. 
39—Conduct of post-mortem investigations by medical 
practitioners. 
40—Post-mortem investigation reports. 
41—Actions taken where deaths are suspected to be due 
to offences. 
42—Review of post-mortem investigations. 
43—Post-mortem investigation report prima facie 
evidence. 
44—Second opinions. 
45—Disposal permits. 
46—Control of the bodies of deceased persons. 
47—Discontinuing post-mortem investigations. 
48—Exhumation of bodies or recovering cremated 
remains. 
49—State to bear the cost of post-mortem examinations. 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2041 
PART IV—TRANSFER OF BODIES OF DECEASED 
PERSONS INTO AND OUT OF KENYA 
50—Transfer of bodies of deceased persons out of 
Kenya. 
51—Transfer of bodies of deceased persons into Kenya. 
52—Disposal in Kenya where death occurred out of 
Kenya. 
PART V—FINANCIAL PROVISIONS 
53—Funds of the Service. 
54—Financial year of the Service. 
55—Annual estimates. 
56—Accounts and audit. 
PART VI—OFFENCES 
57—Obstruction. 
58—Failure to supply information, documents or items. 
59—Making false or misleading statements. 
60—Non-compliance with the directions of the Service. 
61—General penalty. 
PART VII—PROVISIONS ON DELEGATED 
POWERS 
62—Regulations 
PART VII—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
63—Investigations of complaints. 
64—Access to information. 
65—Non-disclosure of information by the Service. 
66—Duty to co-operate with the Service. 
67—Protection from liability for information and other 
items submitted to the Service. 
68—Repeal. 
SCHEDULE—Conduct of the Affairs of the 
Council 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2042 
THE NATIONAL CORONERS SERVICE BILL, 2026 
A Bill for 
AN ACT of Parliament to the National Coroners 
Service; post-mortem investigations; transfer of 
bodies of deceased persons into and out of Kenya; 
and for connected purposes 
ENACTED by the Parliament of Kenya, as follows— 
PART I—PRELIMINARY 
 
1. This Act may be cited as the National Coroners 
Service Act, 2026. 
Short title. 
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise 
requires— 
Interpretation. 
“Attorney-General” 
means 
the 
Attorney-General 
appointed under Article 156 of the Constitution; 
 
“coroner” means a person appointed as a coroner 
under section 23; 
 
“Coroner-General” means the person appointed as the 
Coroner-General under section 18; 
 
“Council” means the National Coroners Service 
Council established under section 11; 
 
“custody” means the detention of a person in any 
place or in transit, by the State; 
 
“disposal” means the burial, cremation, entombment 
or donation of the remains of a deceased person; 
 
“guardian” means a person who is responsible for, or 
entrusted with, the care, welfare or protection of an 
individual; 
 
“interested person” means— 
 
(a) a relative of a deceased person; 
 
(b) a personal representative of the estate of a 
deceased person; 
 
(c) a beneficiary under a life insurance policy of a 
deceased person; 
 
(d) the insurer who issued a life insurance policy of a 
deceased person; 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2043 
(e) a person who may, by action or omission, have 
caused, or contributed, to the death of a deceased 
person, or whose employee or agent may have 
done so; 
 
(f) an employee of a person who may, by action or 
omission, have caused, or contributed, to the 
death of a deceased person; 
 
(g) an agent of a person who may, by action or 
omission, have caused, or contributed, to the 
death of a deceased person; 
 
(h) where death of a deceased person may have been 
caused by an injury sustained in the course of an 
employment, a representative of a trade union in 
which the deceased person was a member at the 
time of death; 
 
(i) where death of a deceased person may have been 
caused by an injury sustained in the course of an 
employment, the employer of the deceased 
person at the time of death; 
 
(j) a person appointed by, or a representative of, an 
enforcing authority; 
 
(k) a person appointed by a Government department 
or agency to inquire into the death, or assist in or 
provide evidence for the purposes of an 
investigation into the death of a deceased person; 
 
(l) a person appointed by the Coroner-General as a 
representative of Muslims; 
 
(m) a person appointed by the Coroner-General as a 
representative of an interest group; 
 
(n) a medical practitioner who attended to the 
deceased person before the time of death; or 
 
(o) any other person who the Service considers has 
sufficient interest in the determination of the 
identity, time, date, manner and cause of the 
death being investigated; 
 
“post-mortem investigation” means the forensic 
medical examination of a death investigated by the Service 
in order to determine the identity, time, date, manner and 
cause of the death; 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2044 
“relative” means a spouse, parent, child, brother, 
sister, grandparent, grandchild, nephew, niece, stepfather, 
stepmother, half-brother or half-sister;  
 
“reportable death” means a death which occurs under 
the circumstances specified in section 30; and  
 
“Service” means the National Coroners Service 
established under section 7. 
 
3. The object of this Act shall be— 
Object of the Act. 
(a) to provide for the complementary role of forensic 
medical science services when conducting post-
mortem investigations and in the management of 
crime scenes. 
 
(b) to identify, by forensic study, possible measures to 
help to prevent reportable deaths from similar 
causes; and 
 
(c) to facilitate the participation of the Service at 
inquests on reportable deaths, including matters 
related to public health or safety and the 
administration of justice. 
 
4. This Act shall apply to— 
Scope of the Act. 
(a) the conduct of post-mortem investigations; 
 
(b) the disposal of the bodies of deceased persons; 
 
(c) the exhumation of the bodies of deceased persons; 
 
(d) the transfer of the bodies of deceased persons into 
Kenya; and 
 
(e) the transfer of the bodies of deceased persons out 
of Kenya. 
 
5. In the exercise of the powers and performance of 
functions of the Service under this Act, the Coroner-
General, coroners or any other person charged with the 
exercise of a power or performance of a function under this 
Act shall respect and uphold the values and principles 
enshrined in the Constitution. 
Guiding principles 
of the Act. 
6. (1) This Act shall not limit or otherwise affect the 
functions or powers of— 
Application. 
(a) a police officer or any other person, investigating a 
death under written law; or 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2045 
(b) a police officer, in discharging the duties of a 
police officer, other than in respect of a post-
mortem investigation under this Act. 
 
(2) The provisions of this Act shall be subject to the 
Commissions of Inquiry Act. 
Cap. 102. 
PART II—THE NATIONAL CORONERS SERVICE 
 
7. (1) There is established a service to be known as 
the National Coroners Service. 
Establishment of 
the Service. 
(2) The Service shall be a body corporate with 
perpetual succession and a common seal and shall, in its 
corporate name, be capable of— 
 
(a) suing and being sued; 
 
(b) acquiring, 
holding, 
charging 
and 
disposing 
movable and immovable property; and 
 
(c) doing such other acts for the proper discharge of 
the functions of the Service under this Act or 
written law, as may lawfully be done by a body 
corporate. 
 
8. (1) The headquarters of the Service shall be in 
Nairobi City County. 
Access to the 
Service. 
(2) The Service shall ensure reasonable access to its 
services in all parts of Kenya. 
 
9. (1) Subject to this Act, the Service, in the 
discharge of its functions and exercise of its powers, shall 
not be under the direction or control of any person. 
Independence of 
the Service. 
(2) A person who unlawfully influences or attempts to 
influence a decision of a member of the Council, the 
Coroner-General or a member of staff of the Service, 
commits an offence and is liable, on conviction to a fine not 
exceeding five hundred thousand shillings or imprisonment 
for a term not exceeding two years or to both. 
 
(3) A person who unlawfully interferes or attempts to 
interfere with the exercise of the powers of the Service or 
Coroner-General, or the performance of a function of the 
Service or Coroner-General, commits an offence and is 
liable, on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred 
thousand shillings or imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding two years or to both. 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2046 
(4) Where the offence under subsection (2) or (3) is 
committed by a body corporate, the body corporate shall be 
liable, on conviction, to a fine of two million shillings. 
 
10. The functions of the Service shall be to— 
Functions of the 
Service. 
(a) conduct post-mortem investigations in respect of 
reportable deaths; 
 
(b) assist the police in— 
 
(i) handling investigations involving decedent 
bodies; and 
 
(ii) scene management by providing post-mortem 
investigative services; 
 
(c) provide 
expert 
evidence 
in 
inquiries 
into 
reportable deaths conducted under sections 386, 
387 and 388 of the Criminal Procedure Code; 
 
 
 
Cap. 75. 
(d) advise the Government on public health, public 
safety and administration of justice in respect of 
matters relating to reportable deaths;  
 
(e) conduct studies and advice the Government on 
measures and policies to prevent reportable deaths; 
and 
 
(f) perform such other functions related to reportable 
deaths as may be necessary to achieve the objects 
of this Act. 
 
11. (1) There shall be a National Coroners Service 
Council which shall consist of— 
The Council.  
(a) a chairperson appointed by the President; 
 
(b) the Principal Secretary responsible for matters 
relating to justice or a designated representative; 
 
(c) the Principal Secretary responsible for matters 
relating to finance or a designated representative; 
 
(d) the Inspector-General of the National Police 
Service or a designated representative; 
 
(e) the Director of Public Prosecutions or a designated 
representative; 
 
(f) one person nominated by the Kenya Medical 
Practitioners and Dentists Board and appointed by 
the Attorney-General; 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2047 
(g) one person nominated by the Law Society of 
Kenya and appointed by the Attorney-General; 
 
(h) one person nominated by the Kenya National 
Commission on Human Rights and appointed by 
the Attorney-General; and 
 
(i) the Coroner-General. 
 
(2) A person is qualified to be appointed as the 
chairperson of the Council if that person— 
 
(a) is a Kenyan citizen; 
 
(b) holds a degree from a university recognized in 
Kenya; 
 
(c) has at least fifteen years of work experience in the 
field of law, criminology or human rights; and 
 
(d) meets the requirements of Chapter Six of the 
Constitution. 
 
(3) A person qualifies to be appointed as a member of 
the Council under subsection (1)(f), (g) and (h) if that 
person— 
 
(a) holds a degree from a university recognized in 
Kenya;  
 
(b) has at least ten years of experience in the field of 
law, public administration, medicine, economics, 
finance, gender and social development, human 
rights or social sciences; and 
 
(c) meets the requirements of Chapter Six of the 
Constitution. 
 
(4) A chairperson or a member of the Council 
appointed under subsection (1)(f), (g) and (h) shall serve 
for a term of three years and may be eligible for re-
appointment for one final term of three years. 
 
12. (1) The office of the chairperson or a member of 
the Council appointed under section 11(1)(f), (g) and (h) 
shall become vacant if the holder of the office— 
Vacancy in the 
Council. 
(a) resigns from office, in the case of the chairperson, 
by notice in writing to the President, and in the 
case of the member, by notice in writing to the 
Attorney-General; 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2048 
(b) dies or 
(c) is removed from office on any of the grounds 
specified in subsection (2). 
 
(2) The chairperson or a member of the Council 
appointed under section 11(1)(f), (g) and (h) may be 
removed from office if the chairperson or member— 
 
(a) has been absent from three consecutive meetings 
of the Council without reasonable cause; 
 
(b) is convicted of a criminal offence and sentenced to 
imprisonment for a term exceeding six months; 
 
(c) is found to have breached Chapter Six of the 
Constitution; 
 
(d) is found to have committed gross misconduct; 
 
(e) is adjudged bankrupt by a court of competent 
jurisdiction or enters into a composition scheme or 
arrangement with the person’s creditors; or 
 
(f) is incapacitated from discharging duties by reason 
of physical or mental illness. 
 
13. The functions of the Council shall be— 
Functions of the 
Council. 
(a) to advise the Attorney-General on policies relating 
to the functions of the Service;  
 
(b) to advise the Service on the administration of the 
Service; and 
 
(c) to perform such other functions as may be 
conferred under this Act or any other written law. 
 
14. (1) The Council shall, within three months after 
the end of each financial year, prepare an annual report and 
submit the report to the Attorney-General and the National 
Assembly. 
Annual report by 
the Council. 
(2) The report referred to in subsection (1) shall 
specify— 
 
(a) the activities of the Service; 
 
(b) the financial statements of the Service; 
 
(c) the measures taken and progress achieved in the 
realization of the objects for which the Service is 
established; 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2049 
(d) any recommendations made by the Council and 
action taken thereon; 
 
(e) the impact of the exercise of the functions of the 
Service; 
 
(f) any impediments faced by the Service in the 
performance of its functions; and 
 
(g) such other information as the Council considers 
appropriate relating to the functions of the Service. 
 
15. The Council may establish such committees as 
may be necessary for the performance of its functions. 
Committees of the 
Council. 
16. The Council may delegate the performance of its 
functions or exercise of its power to a committee of the 
Council or a member of staff of the Service as the Council 
deems appropriate. 
Delegation by the 
Council. 
17. The affairs of the Council shall be conducted in 
accordance with the Schedule. 
Conduct of affairs 
of the Council. 
18. (1) The Council shall competitively recruit and 
appoint the Coroner-General. 
Appointment of 
the Coroner-
General. 
(2) A person is qualified to be appointed as the 
Coroner-General if that person— 
 
(a) is a citizen of Kenya; 
 
(b) holds a Bachelor’s degree in medicine and surgery 
from a university recognized in Kenya; 
 
(c) holds a Masters’ degree in a field related to human 
pathology from a university recognised in Kenya; 
 
(d) has practised as a medical practitioner for at least 
fifteen years; 
 
(e) has at least five years’ experience in the field of 
human pathology; 
 
(f) has at least five years’ experience at management 
level; 
 
(g) has a valid practising certificate issued under the 
Medical Practitioners and Dentists Act; and 
Cap. 253. 
(h) possesses a qualification in forensic pathology 
obtained pursuant to training for a period of at 
least six months. 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2050 
(3) The Coroner-General shall hold office for a single 
non-renewable term of six years on such terms of service 
that the Council, in consultation with Salaries and 
Remuneration Commission, shall determine. 
 
19. The Coroner-General shall— 
Functions of the 
Coroner-General. 
(a) be responsible for the day-to-day administration, 
control and management of the Service; and 
 
(b) perform such other functions as may be conferred 
or imposed by or under this Act or any other 
written law. 
 
20. The Coroner-General shall have the power to— 
Powers of the 
Coroner-General. 
(a) issue disposal permits in respect of human remains 
where the death was investigated by the Service; 
 
(b) request a magistrate to hold an inquiry into a 
reportable death in accordance with section 387 of 
the Criminal Procedure Code; 
 
 
 
Cap. 75. 
(c) designate a facility for the temporary storage of 
human 
remains 
on 
which 
post-mortem 
examination is being conducted; and 
 
(d) approve the transfer of the human remains into and 
out of Kenya. 
 
21. (1) The Coroner-General may delegate, in writing, 
to any officer, member of staff or agent of the Service, the 
exercise of any of the powers or the performance of any of 
the functions or duties of the Coroner-General under this 
Act. 
Delegation by the 
Coroner-General. 
(2) A delegation under subsection (1) shall not prevent 
the Coroner-General from exercising the power or 
performing the function in question. 
 
(3) A delegation under subsection (1)— 
 
(a) shall be subject to any conditions as the Coroner-
General may impose; 
 
(b) shall not divest the Coroner-General of the 
responsibility concerning the exercise of the power 
or the performance of the function delegated; and 
 
(c) may be withdrawn and any decision made by the 
person to whom the delegation is made, withdrawn 
or varied by the Coroner-General. 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2051 
22. (1) The office of the Coroner-General shall 
become vacant if the holder of the office— 
Vacancy in the 
office of the 
Coroner-General. 
(a) resigns from office by notice in writing to the 
Council;  
(b) dies; or 
 
(c) has been removed from office on the grounds 
specified in subsection (2). 
 
(2) The Coroner-General may be removed from office 
if the person— 
 
(a) is convicted of a criminal offence and sentenced to 
imprisonment for a term exceeding six months; 
 
(b) is found to have breached Chapter Six of the 
Constitution; 
 
(c) is adjudged bankrupt by a court of competent 
jurisdiction or enters into a composition scheme or 
arrangement with the person’s creditors; or 
 
(d) is incapacitated from discharging duties by reason 
of physical or mental illness. 
 
(3) Where the question of the removal of the Coroner-
General from office on any of the grounds under subsection 
(1)(b) arises, the Council shall, in writing, inform the 
Coroner-General of the intended removal and give the 
Coroner-General an opportunity to respond. 
 
23. (1) The Council shall competitively recruit and 
appoint such number of coroners as may be necessary for 
the proper discharge of the functions of the Service on such 
terms as the Council may determine on the advice of the 
Salaries and Remuneration Commission. 
Appointment of 
coroners and staff 
of the Service. 
(2) The Council shall, through a competitive and 
transparent process, appoint such staff of the Service as 
may be necessary for the efficient discharge of the 
functions of the Service on such terms as the Council may 
determine on the advice of the Salaries and Remuneration 
Commission. 
 
24. (1) The performance of the functions or exercise 
of the powers by a coroner shall be— 
General 
responsibility of a 
coroner. 
(a) consistent with justice and practicable to do so; 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2052 
(b) without delay; and 
 
(c) under the directions issued by the Coroner-
General. 
 
25. There shall be a Corporation Secretary to the 
Council who shall be appointed by the Council through a 
competitive and transparent process, on such terms as the 
Council may, in consultation with the Salaries and 
Remuneration Commission, determine. 
Corporation 
Secretary to the 
Council. 
26. Where the personal interest of a member of the 
Council, the Coroner-General, a coroner, or a member of 
staff of the Service conflicts with the exercise of a power of 
the Service, Council or Coroner-General, or performance of 
a function of the Service, Council or Coroner-General, the 
member of the Council, Coroner-General, coroner, or 
member of staff of the Service shall declare the conflict of 
interest to the Service and refrain from exercising that 
power or performing that function. 
Conflict of 
interest. 
27. (1) Anything done by a member of the Council, 
Coroner-General, a coroner or member of staff of the 
Service, if done in good faith in the exercise of a power of 
the Service, Council or Coroner-General, or performance of 
a function of the Service, Council or Coroner-General, shall 
not render the member of the Council, Coroner-General, 
coroner, or member of staff of the Service personally liable 
for any action, claim or demand. 
Protection from 
personal liability. 
(2) Subsection (1) shall not relieve the Service of the 
liability to pay compensation to any person for any injury 
to the person, the property or the interests of the person, 
caused by the exercise of a power of the Service, Council 
or Coroner-General, or performance of a function of the 
Service, Council or Coroner-General. 
 
PART III—POST-MORTEM INVESTIGATIONS 
 
28. A post-mortem investigation shall be undertaken 
to ascertain— 
Purpose of post-
mortem 
investigations. 
(a) the particulars of the deceased person; 
 
(b) how, when and where the deceased person died; 
 
(c) the cause and manner of the death; 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2053 
(d) what preventive measures may be taken to prevent 
deaths from similar causes or in similar 
circumstances from occurring; and 
 
(e) any other particulars as may be required under any 
other written law. 
 
29. The 
Service 
shall 
undertake 
post-mortem 
investigations of all deaths suspected to be of a criminal 
nature, regardless of faith or other considerations that may 
require immediate disposal of the remains of the deceased 
person. 
Post-mortem 
investigations of 
deaths suspected 
to be of a criminal 
nature. 
30. (1) The Service shall investigate all reportable 
deaths. 
Reportable deaths. 
(2) A death is a reportable death if— 
 
(a) the deceased person is reported to have died due 
to an act of violence, an accident, a suspected 
homicide or suicide; 
 
(b) the deceased person is reported to have 
experienced a sudden and unexpected death; 
 
(c) the deceased person died in police custody, 
military custody, prison custody or other form of 
custody; 
 
(d) the deceased person died within one year and one 
day of suffering from an assault; 
 
(e) the deceased person died within twenty-four 
hours following a surgical procedure; 
 
(f) the deceased person died during or immediately 
after the administration of anaesthesia; 
 
(g) the deceased person died within twenty-four 
hours after being discharged from a health 
facility; 
 
(h) the death is a maternal death; 
 
(i) the deceased person is a victim of a sexual 
offence under the Sexual Offences Act; 
 
 
Cap. 63A. 
(j) the deceased person died from suspected 
infanticide; 
 
(k) the death is a cot death; 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2054 
(l) the deceased person is a child who died from 
suspected child abuse; 
 
(m) the deceased person died within a mental health 
facility, 
rehabilitation 
centre 
or 
institution 
established for the care of older persons; 
 
(n) the deceased person died in a children’s 
institution, education institution, early childhood 
education centre, child care facility or any other 
facility offering care or protection to children; 
 
(o) the deceased person died while in the care of a 
guardian; 
 
(p) the deceased person is suspected to have died 
from misadventure, negligence, misconduct or 
malpractice; 
 
(q) the deceased person died from a disease for 
which the person was treated by an unlicensed 
healthcare professional; 
 
(r) the deceased person died from a disease for 
which the person was treated by an individual not 
qualified to offer that treatment; or 
 
(s) the 
deceased 
person 
died 
under 
such 
circumstances as the Inspector-General of the 
National Police Service may require to be 
investigated. 
 
(3) in this section— 
 
“cot death” means the sudden, unexplained death of an 
otherwise healthy baby under one year old where the exact 
cause of death is unknown; and 
 
“maternal death” means the death of a woman during 
pregnancy, childbirth, or within forty-two days of 
termination of pregnancy arising from any cause related to 
or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management. 
 
31. (1) A person who suspects that the death of a 
person is a reportable death shall immediately notify the 
Service or a police officer. 
Notification of 
reportable deaths 
(2) The person in charge of an institution or facility 
referred to in section 30 (2) (m) or (n) shall immediately 
notify the Service or a police officer of all deaths that occur 
in the institution or facility. 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2055 
(3) The Service shall immediately notify a police 
officer of any notification made under subsection (1) or (2). 
 
(4) A police officer who has been notified under 
subsection (1) or (2) shall immediately notify the Service of 
the reportable death. 
 
(5) A person who does not comply with subsection (1) 
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a 
fine not exceeding fifty thousand shillings or to 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to 
both. 
 
(6) A person who intimidates, harasses or assaults a 
person who makes a notification under subsection (1) or (2) 
commits an offence and is liable, on conviction, to a fine 
not exceeding five hundred thousand shillings or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to 
both. 
 
(7) A body corporate which intimidates, harasses or 
assaults a person who makes a notification under 
subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence and is liable, on 
conviction, to a fine of two million shillings. 
 
32. (1) Where a reportable death was a death that 
occurred in police custody, military custody, prison custody 
or any other form of custody, the officer in charge of the 
place of custody or, in the officer’s absence, the police 
officer nearest the place of custody shall notify the Service 
immediately after the officer discovers the deceased person. 
Notification of 
deaths in custody. 
(2) An officer who does not comply with subsection 
(1) commits an offence. 
 
(3) In exceptional circumstances and where it is not 
practically possible to make the notification of the death 
within the period specified in subsection (1), the officer in 
charge of the station or the premises where the deceased 
was held in custody shall, in addition to notifying the 
Service of the death, issue a written report stating the 
reasons for the delay in making the notification. 
 
(4) Where the Service investigates a death occurring 
in police custody, military custody, prison custody or any 
other form of custody, the Service shall furnish a copy of 
the notification of the death to the Independent Policing 
Oversight Authority or any other relevant authority. 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2056 
33. (1) The Service shall, as soon as practicable, 
conduct a post-mortem investigation where the Service— 
Conduct of post-
mortem 
investigations. 
(a) becomes aware of the death under section 29; or 
 
(b) is notified under section 31 or 32. 
 
(2) The Service shall conclude a post-mortem 
investigation within three months from the date the Service 
became aware of the death under section 29 or was notified 
of the death under section 31 or 32. 
 
34. (1) A police officer or any person who is present at 
the time of the death of a person or who finds the body of a 
deceased person, shall in addition to making the 
notification under section 31 or 32, preserve the scene 
where the death occurred, or where the body was found, 
until the Service arrives at the scene. 
Preservation and 
management of 
scenes of death. 
(2) In addition to securing and preserving the scene 
under subsection (1), the police officer shall collect 
evidence necessary and relevant for purposes of the 
investigation and prosecution of any offence relating to the 
death. 
 
(3) A person who interferes or tampers with evidence 
or a scene where a reportable death occurred commits an 
offence and is liable, on conviction, to a fine not exceeding 
five hundred thousand shillings or imprisonment for a term 
not exceeding two years, or to both. 
 
(4) A body corporate which interferes or tampers with 
evidence or a scene where a reportable death occurred 
commits an offence and is liable, on conviction, to a fine 
not exceeding two million shillings. 
 
35. For purposes of post-mortem investigations under 
this Act, the Service shall have the power to collect 
forensic and other samples and to preserve the samples in 
such manner as the Service may determine. 
Collection of 
forensic samples. 
36. (1) This section shall apply if the body of a 
deceased person is to be transferred to a mortuary at the 
direction of— 
Transferring the 
bodies of 
deceased persons 
to mortuaries. 
(a) the Service; or 
 
(b) a police officer. 
 
(2) A person who is involved in transferring the body 
of a deceased person to the mortuary shall comply with— 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2057 
(a) any direction of the Service or a police officer; or 
 
(b) the directions of the Coroner-General regarding— 
 
(i) the dignity and respect to be accorded to 
persons who are at the place from which the 
body of a deceased person is to be transferred, 
and their cultural traditions or spiritual beliefs; 
and 
 
(ii) the way in which the body of the deceased 
person is to be transferred to the mortuary. 
 
37. (1) The Service may authorise an interested 
person, or a representative of the interested person, to 
observe or participate in a post-mortem examination. 
Participation in 
post-mortem 
examinations. 
(2) Before issuing the authorisation under subsection 
(1), the Service shall ensure that— 
 
(a) the interested person or representative has an 
interest in the post-mortem examination;  
 
(b) the attendance of the person or representative, 
shall not compromise the integrity of the post-
mortem examination; and 
 
(c) where practicable, any family member of the 
deceased person has been consulted. 
 
(3) Upon issuing an authorisation under subsection 
(1), the Service shall give the interested person or 
representative a written notice of the time and place where 
the post-mortem examination is to be conducted. 
 
(4) Upon request, the Service may authorise a person 
to observe or participate in a post-mortem examination for 
the purposes of the vocational or clinical education or 
training of the person. 
 
38. (1) Where tissue is removed during a post-mortem 
examination, the Service may order the release of the body 
of the deceased person if the Service is satisfied that the 
relative or guardian of the deceased person has been 
informed of the extraction of the tissue and the retention of 
the tissue is necessary for the conduct of the post-mortem 
investigation. 
Tissues required 
for conducting 
post-mortem 
examination. 
(2) If the Service keeps tissue for testing, the Service 
shall, at least once in every six months after the 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2058 
commencing the post-mortem examination, determine 
whether— 
(a) the tissue still requires to be retained for the post-
mortem investigation or proceedings relating to 
the commission of an offence;  
 
(b) the tissue may be disposed of; or  
 
(c) the tissue may be stored indefinitely. 
 
(3) In this section, “tissue” means any type of human 
tissue that has been identified as suitable for a particular 
purpose by the Service. 
 
39. (1) The Service may procure the services of a 
qualified medical practitioner or any other expert to 
conduct a post-mortem examination. 
Conduct of post-
mortem 
investigations by 
medical 
practitioners. 
(2) The procurement of the services of a qualified 
medical practitioner or any other expert under subsection 
(1) shall be in accordance with the Public Procurement and 
Asset Disposal Act. 
 
 
 
Cap. 412C. 
(3) For the purposes of subsection (1), a person is a 
suitably qualified medical practitioner if the person— 
 
(a) is a registered medical practitioner with relevant 
qualification and experience in human pathology; 
or 
 
(b) in a case where a particular kind of examination is 
requested, 
a 
practitioner 
of 
a 
description 
determined by the Service as suitable to make an 
examination of that kind. 
 
(4) Where a person informs the Service that, in the 
person’s opinion, death was caused wholly or partly by the 
improper or negligent treatment offered by a medical 
practitioner or other person, that medical practitioner or 
other person— 
 
(a) shall not undertake, or assist in, a post-mortem 
examination of the body; and 
 
(b) shall be entitled to be represented during the post-
mortem examination. 
 
(5) The medical practitioner or expert under 
subsection (1) who conducts a post-mortem examination 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2059 
under this section shall, as soon as practicable after 
conducting the post-mortem examination, prepare and 
submit a post-mortem examination report to the Service. 
40. (1) The Service shall prepare a post-mortem 
investigation report of every post-mortem investigation 
conducted under this Act. 
Post-mortem 
investigation 
reports. 
(2) The report prepared under subsection (1) shall be 
issued to relevant authorities and interested persons as soon 
as the report is concluded in accordance with section 33(2). 
 
(3) For the purposes of a criminal investigation and 
any subsequent prosecution of an offence, the Service shall 
prepare an interim post-mortem investigation report to the 
National Police Service and the Office of the Director of 
Public Prosecutions or any other relevant Authority within 
twenty-four hours of the conclusion of a post-mortem 
examination. 
 
(4) The Service shall submit to the office of the 
Director of Public Prosecutions, National Police Service 
and any other relevant entity a final and conclusive report 
prepared under subsection (1) within three months after 
conducting a post-mortem examination. 
 
(5) Where the Service does not submit the report 
prepared under subsection (1) within the time stipulated 
under subsection (4), the Service shall submit a report to 
the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, National 
Police Service and that other relevant entity, of the reasons 
for the delay. 
 
(6) Every post-mortem investigation report shall be 
signed by the Coroner-General and shall include the 
following particulars— 
 
(a) where, when and by whom the investigation was 
conducted; 
 
(b) the identity of the deceased person; 
 
(c) where the body of the deceased person lies; 
 
(d) where, when and by what means the deceased 
person died; 
 
(e) the identification of issues in relation to preventive 
measures that can be undertaken by the 
authorities; 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2060 
(f) any other matter that the Coroner-General 
considers necessary. 
 
(7) Where the identity of the deceased person is 
unknown, the body may be described based on its physical 
or identifiable features. 
 
(8) No post-mortem investigation report shall be 
deemed to be defective on account of any technical defect 
or for want of form. 
 
41. Where the Service determines that an offence may 
have occasioned the death of the deceased person, the 
Service 
shall, 
immediately 
after 
the 
post-mortem 
investigation, submit a copy of the investigation report to 
the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions and the 
National Police Service. 
Actions taken 
where deaths are 
suspected to be 
due to offences. 
42. The Service may, on application by an aggrieved 
party or on the Service’s motion, review a post-mortem 
investigation report if— 
Review of post-
mortem 
investigations. 
(a) the Service considers that the circumstances 
warrant a fresh post-mortem investigation; 
 
(b) new facts or evidence that were previously not 
within the knowledge of the Service have 
emerged; or 
 
(c) new technology has emerged that is beneficial to 
the post-mortem examination. 
 
43. (1) For purposes of the investigation, prosecution 
and hearing of a matter before court, a post-mortem 
investigation report prepared under section 40 shall be 
deemed to be prima facie evidence, and recognizable as 
such, with regard to the cause of death of the deceased 
person. 
Post-mortem 
investigation 
report prima facie 
evidence. 
(2) Subsection (1) shall not preclude a person who is 
dissatisfied with the findings of the Service from seeking 
another opinion on the cause of death of the deceased 
person in respect of whom a post-mortem report was 
prepared under section 40. 
 
44. (1) Any person dissatisfied with a post-mortem 
investigation report prepared under section 40 may, at the 
cost of the person, seek another opinion from a medical 
practitioner. 
Second opinions. 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2061 
(2) Where another opinion is sought under subsection 
(1), the Service may attend the post-mortem investigation 
conducted by the medical practitioner. 
 
45. When a post-mortem investigation has been 
completed, or if it is necessary before the post-mortem 
investigation is completed, the Service shall issue a 
disposal permit in respect of the remains of the deceased 
person. 
Disposal permits. 
46. (1) Unless a death is reported to the Service after 
the body of a deceased person has been disposed of, the 
Service shall have control of the body of a deceased person 
immediately the body is delivered to the Service. 
Control of the 
bodies of 
deceased persons. 
(2) The Service shall cease control of the body of a 
deceased person where the Service issues a disposal permit. 
 
(3) Where the identity of a deceased person cannot be 
determined and the Service considers it necessary to 
dispose of the body of the deceased person, the Service 
shall dispose of the body in the manner prescribed by 
regulations made by the Attorney-General. 
 
47. (1) The Service may discontinue a post-mortem 
investigation if— 
Discontinuing  
post-mortem 
investigations. 
(a) the Service determines that the deceased person 
died of a natural cause; 
 
(b) a court order has been issued to discontinue the 
investigation; 
 
(c) the Service has a conflict of interest while 
conducting the investigation; or 
 
(d) the Service determines that it is prudent to 
discontinue the investigation for public health or 
public safety reasons. 
 
(2) Where a post-mortem investigation is discontinued 
under subsection (1), the Service shall prepare a report as 
soon as practicable which shall include an explanation as to 
why the Service discontinued the investigation. 
 
48. (1) To enable the Service to conduct a post-
mortem examination on a body which is buried or 
cremated, the Service may apply to the High Court for an 
order— 
Exhumation of 
bodies or 
recovering 
cremated remains. 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2062 
(a) if the body was buried, to be exhumed; or 
 
(b) if the body was cremated and the cremated 
remains may be recovered, the cremated remains 
to be recovered. 
 
(2) The Service shall issue at least two days’ notice of 
the intention to apply for an order issued pursuant to an 
application made under subsection (1), to— 
 
(a) the person in charge of the place where the body is 
buried, or the cremated remains are; and 
 
(b) such interested persons as the Service may 
determine. 
 
(3) Subsection (2) shall not apply if— 
 
(a) after taking all reasonable steps, the Service 
cannot contact the persons referred to in 
subsection (2); or 
 
(b) the Service considers that it is not in the public 
interest to notify the persons mentioned in 
subsection (2). 
 
(4) If a person has raised a concern in relation to an 
order issued pursuant to the application under subsection 
(1) but, after discussing the matter with the person, the 
Service considers it is in the public interest for the order to 
be made, the court shall make the order and give a copy of 
the order to the person. 
 
(5) The order issued pursuant to the application under 
subsection (1) shall authorise a police officer to enter the 
place stated in the order and stay there for as long as 
reasonably necessary to exhume the body or recover the 
cremated remains. 
 
(6) The police officer shall arrange for the body or 
cremated remains to be taken, in accordance with the 
directions in the order issued under subsection (1) to a 
place stated in the order. 
 
(7) The Service shall, as soon as reasonably 
practicable after the post-mortem examination, direct the 
body or cremated remains to be returned to the place from 
where they were taken. 
 
49. The cost of a post-mortem examination conducted 
by the Service shall be borne by the State. 
State to bear the 
cost of post-
mortem 
examinations. 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2063 
PART IV—TRANSFER OF BODIES OF DECEASED 
PERSONS INTO AND OUT OF KENYA 
 
50. (1) A person who intends to transfer the body of a 
deceased person out of Kenya shall apply to the Service for 
approval.  
Transfer of bodies 
of deceased 
persons out of 
Kenya. 
(2) This section shall not apply to any human remains 
that are deemed to be antiquities under the National 
Museums and Heritage Act. 
 
 
Cap. 216. 
51. (1) A person who intends to transfer the body of a 
deceased person into Kenya shall apply to the Service for 
approval. 
Transfer of bodies 
of deceased 
persons into 
Kenya. 
(2) This section shall not apply to any human remains 
that are deemed to be antiquities under the National 
Museums and Heritage Act. 
 
 
Cap. 216. 
52. (1) A person who intends to dispose of the body of 
a person whose death occurred out of Kenya, in Kenya, 
shall obtain a medical certificate of the cause of death 
issued by the country where the death occurred.  
Disposal in Kenya 
where death 
occurred out of 
Kenya. 
(2) This section shall not apply to antiquities under the 
National Museums and Heritage Act. 
 
 
Cap. 216. 
PART V—FINANCIAL PROVISIONS 
 
53. The funds of the Service shall consist of— 
Funds of the 
Service. 
(a) monies allocated by Parliament for purposes of the 
Service; 
 
(b) such fees as may be charged by the Service in 
accordance with this Act or Regulations made 
thereunder; 
 
(c) any lawful grants, gifts, donations or other 
endowments given to the Service; and 
 
(d) such funds as may vest in or accrue to the Service 
in the performance of its functions under this Act 
or under any other written law. 
 
54. The financial year of the Service shall be— 
Financial year of 
the Service. 
(a) the period beginning on the day on which this Act 
comes into operation and ending on the following 
thirtieth June; and 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2064 
(b) the period of twelve months commencing on the 
first of July and ending on the thirtieth of June of 
the subsequent year. 
 
55. (1) 
At 
least 
three 
months 
before 
the 
commencement of each financial year, the Service shall 
cause to be prepared estimates of the revenue and 
expenditure of the Service for that year. 
Annual estimates. 
(2) The annual estimates shall make provision for all 
the estimated expenditure of the Service for the financial 
year concerned and in particular, shall provide for the— 
 
(a) payment of remuneration in respect of the 
members of the Council and staff of the Service; 
 
(b) payment of pensions, gratuities and other charges 
in respect of benefits which are payable out of the 
funds of the Service; 
 
(c) maintenance of the buildings and grounds of the 
Service; 
 
(d) funding of training, research and development 
activities of the Service; and 
 
(e) creation of such funds to meet future or contingent 
liabilities in respect of benefits, insurance or 
replacement 
of 
buildings 
or 
installations, 
equipment and in respect of such other matters as 
the Service may deem fit. 
 
(3) The annual estimates shall be approved by the 
Council before the commencement of the financial year to 
which they relate and shall be submitted to the Attorney-
General for tabling in Parliament. 
 
(4) The Service shall not incur any expenditure except 
in accordance with the annual estimates approved under 
subsection (3). 
 
56. (1) The Service shall cause to be kept all proper 
books and records of account of the income, expenditure, 
assets and liabilities of the Service. 
Accounts and 
audit. 
(2) The annual accounts of the Service shall be 
prepared, audited and reported upon in accordance with the 
Public Audit Act. 
 
 
 
Cap. 412B. 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2065 
PART VI—OFFENCES 
 
57. Any person who obstructs the Service in the 
execution of its powers or performance of its functions 
under this Act commits an offence and shall be liable, on 
conviction, to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand 
shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one 
year. 
Obstruction.  
58. (1) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails 
to supply information, documents or items as required by 
the Service under this Act, commits an offence and shall be 
liable, on conviction, to a fine not exceeding two hundred 
thousand shillings or imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding one year or to both. 
Failure to supply 
information, 
documents or 
items. 
(2) A body corporate which, without reasonable 
excuse, fails to supply information, documents or items, as 
required by the Service under this Act, commits an offence 
and shall be liable, on conviction, to a fine not exceeding 
two million shillings. 
 
59. (1) A person who makes a statement knowing that, 
or ought to have known that, the statement is false or 
misleading, commits an offence and shall be liable, on 
conviction, to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand 
shillings or imprisonment for a term not exceeding two 
years, or to both. 
Making false or 
misleading 
statements. 
(2) A body corporate which makes a statement 
knowing that, or ought to have known that, the statement is 
false or misleading, commits an offence and shall be liable, 
on conviction, to a fine not exceeding two million shillings. 
 
60. A person who fails or refuses to comply with a 
direction to remove a body or any other lawful direction by 
the Service commits an offence. 
Non-compliance 
with the directions 
of the Service. 
(2) A person who hinders or prevents any person from 
complying with a direction to remove a body or any other 
lawful direction by the Service commits an offence. 
 
(3) A person who is convicted of the offence under 
subsection (1) or (2) shall be liable to a fine not exceeding 
five hundred thousand shillings or imprisonment for a term 
not exceeding two years or to both. 
 
(4) A body corporate which fails, or refuses, to 
comply with a direction on the removal of a body, or any 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2066 
other lawful direction by the Service under this Act, 
hinders, or prevents, any person from complying with a 
direction on the removal of a body, or any other lawful 
direction under this Act, commits an offence and shall be 
liable, on conviction, to a fine not exceeding two million 
shillings. 
61. (1) Any person who commits an offence under this 
Act for which no penalty is provided shall be liable, on 
conviction, to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand 
or imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to 
both. 
General penalty. 
(2) A body corporate which commits an offence under 
this Act for which no penalty is provided shall be liable, on 
conviction, to a fine not exceeding two million shillings. 
 
PART VII—PROVISIONS ON DELEGATED 
POWERS 
 
62. The Attorney-General may, in consultation with 
the Service, make regulations for better carrying into effect 
of the provisions of this Act. 
Regulations. 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection 
(1), the regulations may prescribe— 
 
(a) the conduct of post-mortem investigations; 
 
(b) the procedure for conducting the review of a post-
mortem investigation by the Service; 
 
(c) the procedure for considering a complaint by the 
Council; 
 
(d) the procedure for seeking another opinion in 
respect of a post-mortem investigation; 
 
(e) the procedure for the issuance of a certificate of 
the cause of death; 
 
(f) the procedure for the issuance of disposal permits; 
 
(g) the procedure for the designation of a facility for 
the temporary storage of bodies on which post-
mortem examinations are being conducted; 
 
(h) the procedure for the approval of the transfer of 
bodies of deceased persons into or out of Kenya;  
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2067 
(i) the procedure for the disposal of unidentified 
bodies;  
 
(j) the procedure for the retention of bodies or tissues 
of deceased persons; and 
 
(k) any other matter the Attorney-General considers 
necessary for the better carrying out of the Act. 
 
(3) For the purposes of Article 94(6) of the 
Constitution— 
(a) the power of the Attorney General to make 
regulations shall be limited to bringing into effect 
the provisions of this Act and the fulfilment of the 
objectives specified under subsection (1); and 
 
(b) the principles and standards set out under the 
Statutory Instruments Act and the Interpretation 
and General Provisions Act in relation to 
subsidiary legislation shall apply to regulations 
made under this Act. 
Cap. 2A. 
Cap. 2. 
PART VIII—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
 
63. (1) The Council may investigate a complaint 
against any of the following decisions of the Service — 
Investigations of 
complaints. 
(a) whether or not to conduct a post-mortem 
examination; 
 
(b) access or restriction to observe or participate in the 
conduct of a post-mortem examination; 
 
(c) the determination made at the conclusion of a 
post-mortem examination; 
 
(d) the retention by the Service of the tissue of a 
deceased person; 
 
(e) whether or not to review a post-mortem 
examination report; 
 
(f) whether or not to resume a post-mortem 
investigation after discontinuing the investigation; 
 
(g) the issuance of a certificate of cause of death;  
 
(h) the transfer of the body of a deceased person into 
or out of Kenya; or 
 
(i) the disposal of a body in Kenya where death 
occurred outside Kenya. 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2068 
(2) Upon concluding the investigation of a complaint, 
the Council may make such recommendations as it 
considers necessary. 
 
64. Any person may seek, and obtain, information 
from the Service on the exercise of any power or 
performance of any function of the Service.  
Access to 
information. 
65. A member of the Council or staff of the Service 
shall not disclose any information acquired by the member 
of the Council or staff of the Service through the exercise 
of the powers or performance of the functions of the 
Service, except— 
Non-disclosure of 
information by the 
Service. 
(a) for the purpose of any legal proceedings; 
 
(b) where the Service determines that it is in the 
public interest to disclose the information; or 
 
(c) where the member of the Council or staff of the 
Service is required to disclose the information 
under the Access to Information Act. 
 
 
 
Cap. 7M. 
66. (1) A public officer, State organ or State office 
shall at all times co-operate with the Service in ensuring the 
successful performance of the functions of the Service and 
in particular— 
Duty to co-operate 
with the Service. 
(a) respond to any inquiry made by the Service which 
is relevant to a post-mortem investigation; and 
 
(b) provide any other information that the Service may 
require in the performance of its functions under 
the Act and any other written law. 
 
(2) Any State officer or public officer who 
contravenes subsection (1) commits an offence and shall be 
liable, on conviction, to a fine not exceeding two hundred 
thousand shillings, or to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding one year, or to both. 
 
67. (1) A person is not liable, civilly, criminally or 
under an administrative process, for submitting to the 
Service any of the following— 
Protection from 
liability for 
information and 
other items 
submitted to the 
Service. 
(a) information, a document or anything else in 
compliance with a requirement made under this 
Act or any other written law; or 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2069 
(b) confidential information. 
 
(2) Where a person submits to the Service an item 
required in the course of undertaking the functions of the 
Service under this Act or confidential information, that 
person shall not be held to have— 
 
(a) breached any code of professional etiquette or 
ethics; or 
 
(b) departed from accepted standards of professional 
conduct. 
 
(3) Without limiting subsections (1) and (2)— 
 
(a) in a proceeding for defamation, the person has a 
defence of absolute privilege for publishing the 
required item or confidential information; and 
 
(b) if the person would otherwise be required to 
maintain confidentiality about the required item or 
confidential information under an Act, oath or rule 
of law or practice, the person— 
 
(i) does not contravene the Act, oath or rule of 
law or practice by giving the required item or 
confidential information; and 
 
(ii) is not liable to disciplinary action for giving 
the required item or confidential information. 
 
68. The National Coroners Service Act is repealed. 
Repeal. 
Cap. 89. 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2070 
SCHEDULE                                                 (s. 17) 
Conduct of the affairs of the Council 
1. (1) The Council shall meet at least four times in 
each year and not more than three months shall elapse 
between one meeting and the next. 
Meetings of the 
Council. 
(2) A meeting of the Council shall be held on such 
date and at such time and place as the Council may 
determine. 
 
(3) The chairperson shall, on the written application of 
at least one-third of the members, convene a special 
meeting of the Council. 
 
(4) The chairperson shall preside at every meeting of 
the Council at which the chairperson is present and in the 
absence of the chairperson at a meeting, the members 
present shall elect one of their number who shall, with 
respect to that meeting and the business transacted thereat, 
have all the powers of the chairperson. 
 
(5) The proceedings of the Council shall not be 
deemed invalid only by reason of a vacancy among the 
members. 
 
2. The quorum for the conduct of business at a 
meeting of the Council shall be five members. 
Quorum. 
3. A decision of the Council shall be by a majority of 
the members present and voting and, in the case of an 
equality of votes, the person presiding at the meeting shall 
have a casting vote. 
Decisions of the 
Council. 
4. Unless otherwise provided by or under any written 
law, all instruments made by and decisions of the Council 
shall be signified under the hand of the Chairperson. 
Signification of 
instruments and 
decisions of the 
Council. 
5. (1) If a member is directly or indirectly interested 
in any matter before the Council and is present at a meeting 
of the Council at which the matter is the subject of 
consideration, that member shall, at the meeting and as 
soon as practicable after the commencement thereof, 
disclose the fact and shall not take part in the consideration 
or discussion of, or vote on, any questions with respect to 
the contract or other matter, or be counted in the quorum of 
this meeting during consideration of the matter. 
Disclosure of 
interest by 
members 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2071 
(2) Despite subparagraph (1) where the majority of the 
members present are of the opinion that the experience or 
expertise of such member is vital to the deliberations of the 
meeting, the Council may permit the member to participate 
in the deliberations subject to such restrictions as it may 
impose but such member shall not have the right to vote on 
the matter. 
 
(3) A disclosure of interest made under this paragraph 
shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting at which it 
is made. 
 
(4) A member of the Council who contravenes 
subparagraph (1) commits an offence and is liable a fine 
not exceeding one hundred thousand shillings or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to 
both. 
 
 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2072 
MEMORANDUM OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
Statement of the Objects and Reasons for the Bill 
The principal object of the Bill is to establish the National Coroners 
Service; post-mortem investigations; transfer of bodies of deceased 
persons into and out of Kenya; and for connected purposes. 
Part I of the Bill provides for preliminary matters. This Part provides 
for the object and scope of the Act. This Part also provides for the guiding 
principles of the Act and the application of the Act. 
Part II of the Bill provides for the establishment of the National 
Coroners Service. This Part provides for access to the Service and 
independence of the Service. This Part also provides for the functions of 
the Service. This Part provides for the appointment of the Council, the 
composition, qualifications, and term of office of its members, the 
functions of the Council, and the submission of an annual report on the 
operations of the Service to Parliament. This Part also provides for the 
appointment of the Coroner-General, the functions and powers of the 
Coroner-General. This Part provides for the appointment of coroners and 
staff of the Service including the corporation secretary to the Council. This 
Part also provides for conflict of interest and protection from personal 
liability of members of the Council, the Coroner-General and staff of the 
Service.  
Part III of the Bill provides for the purpose of post-mortem 
investigations. This Part also provides for mandatory post-mortem 
investigations of deaths suspected to be of a criminal nature. This Part 
provides for what constitutes a reportable deaths and the obligation to 
make a notification where a reportable death occurs or a death in custody. 
This Part provides for the conduct of post-mortem investigations which 
includes the preservation and management of scenes of death, the 
collection of forensic samples by the Service, the transferring body of 
deceased person to mortuary, participation of persons in post-mortem 
examinations, the collection of tissues required for conducting post-
mortem investigations, the conduct of post-mortem investigations by 
medical practitioners and post-mortem investigation reports. This Part also 
provides for the actions to be taken where death is suspected to be due to 
an offence. In addition, this Part provides for the review of post-mortem 
investigations. This Part provides for post-mortem investigation reports 
being prima facie evidence in legal proceedings. This Part provides for 
access to second opinions for post-mortem investigations. This Part 
provides for the issuance of disposal permits. This Part also provides for 
when the Service ceases control of the bodies of deceased persons or 
discontinues post-mortem investigations. This Part also provides for the 

The National Coroners Service Bill, 2026 
2073 
exhumation of bodies or recovering cremated remains. This Part also 
provides for the costs of post-mortem examinations to be borne by the 
State. 
Part IV of the Bill provides for the transfer of bodies of deceased 
persons into and out of Kenya. This Part also provides for the disposal in 
Kenya where death occurred out of Kenya. 
Part V of the Bill provides for the source of funds of the Service. 
This Part provides for the annual estimates of the Service as well as the 
auditing of the accounts of the Service. 
Part VI of the Bill provides for the offences of obstruction, failure to 
supply information, documents or items, making false or misleading 
statements and non-compliance with other lawful directions of the Service 
on removal of the body of a deceased person. This Part also provides for 
the general penalty. 
Part VII of the Bill provides for investigations of complaints into the 
decisions of the Service. This Part also provides for access to the 
information of the Service as well as non-disclosure of information by the 
Service. This Part provides for the duty to persons to co-operate with the 
Service as well as the protection from liability for information and other 
items submitted to the Service. This Part provides for the making of 
regulations for the better implementation of the Act. This Part also repeal 
of the National Coroners Service Act (Cap. 89). 
The Schedule to the Bill provides for the conduct of the affairs of the 
Council. 
Statement on the delegation of legislative powers and limitation of 
fundamental rights and freedoms 
The Bill delegate legislative powers to the Attorney general but it 
does not limit fundamental rights and freedoms. 
Statement on whether the Bill concerns County Governments 
The Bill does not concern county governments in terms of Article 
110(1)(a) of the Constitution. 
Statement whether the Bill is a money Bill within the meaning of 
Article 114 of the Constitution 
The enactment of this Bill may occasion additional expenditure of 
public funds. 
Dated the 19th August, 2026. 
KIMANI ICHUNG’WAH, 
Leader of the Majority Party. 
